STRAT indicator The STRAT indicator is a technical indicator, which is based on a set of criteria - and is part of the STRAT technology invented by Søren Lanng. The criteria used to form a STRAT indicator can be of any kind and can be derived from any data source - across instruments, timeframes, markets and data types. Typically, the criteria used are derived from traditional technical indicators such as MACD and SMA. Using a set of criteria is well known from strategy development. A trading strategy is fundamentally a set of criteria, used to decide when to take action - each criterion evaluated for true or false. A criterion can be of any type; is SMA10 above SMA20 ? Is it Monday today ? A criterion is either included or excluded from a trading strategy. Fundamentally, a technical analysis consists of a set of criteria which the trader evaluates during the technical analysis. A technical analysis can therefore be regarded as a form of trading strategy - ending up with a trading decision. The STRAT indicator is in it´s nature a visual backtest of a set of criteria, of a trading strategy, and is used both for automated trading and for technical analysis, across instruments, timeframes, markets and data types. Figure 1 shows a set of criteria, derived from traditional technical indicators, changing value from false to true at differet moments. The leading indicators will be the first to ”trigger”, the lagging will be the last to ”trigger”. Figure 2 shows an example of a STRAT indicator, including upper and lower bands. The criteria are turning from true to false at different moments/bars. Using criteria from different timeframes, provides a simple method to create a curve using information from the higher and lower timeframes. Figure 3 shows an example of the SMA4 across timeframes of the same instrument. Figure 4 shows and example of using a set of criteria across both timeframes and instruments, providing a method to perform technical analysis across timeframes, asset classes and markets.