Http://upload. wikimedia. org/wikipedia/commons/c/cd/Crystal file temporary. png 			 Caption1 			 		 	 Location: Italy, SIENA Music: an original cocktail of funky, r'n'b, soul, blues website: www. louleonardi. it Take a little bit of funky, add a pinch of R&amp;B, mix it all with pure electric blues and you get Lou &amp; The Blues. Having established themselves as one of the most sought after bands in Italy opening with the likes of Phil Guy, Ana Popovic, Popa Chubby and playing with Volker Strifler, Shana Morrison, Tia Carroll and Andy Just, Lou Leonardi’s Lou &amp; the Blues prove you just can´t sit still while listening to this band. The band is made up of a mix of styles, ranging from Eric Clapton and Bonnie Raitt, to Jimmie Smith, James Brown and Stevie Ray Vaughan with the final result a cocktail of feeling and energy that gives Lou &amp; the Blues its unique ‘spaghetti blues. ’ Lou &amp; The Blues was born in 1999 and immediately began to take its first steps in search of an identity and a sound that was unique and immediately identifiable. Since then the band has changed a few of its original members but has found strength and stability in the present line-up ensuring a solid foundation provided by their artistic quality and the great friendship that binds them. This gives the group definition and originality while maintaining the typical Blues sounds found in its DNA and tinged with that 'I feel good!” get up and boogie kind of beat. Always with guitarist Lou Leonardi there´s his friend of a life time and incomparable organist Matteo Addabbo that with the notes of his Hammond create a velvety carpet for the whole band and at the same time shows up as a talented soloist with the addition ability of playing bass line, formula proposed over the years by many americans bluesman as Albert King and Jimmie Vaughan. On the drums Gianni Cerone which is the locomotive of the band. Perfect beat and powerful sound he drags the band with great energy. Another secret ingredient of the success of the band is Piero Paolini. Great sax player with experience that gives to the band an extra touch of originality and amazing solos! The voice stands out the most beautiful and distinctive voice of Sheila Gasparri. Each song is played with palpable energy and catch the attention of the listeners even those who do not have blues backgrounds.